SmartShop V.95

By Joseph Miller

Copyright 2002 Indivision Productions

I decided to offer this flash shopping cart as GNU-ware on or around the same day that I 
thought of a much better way to build a flash cart. However, I believe that someone may 
find this cart useful as it is fairly simple and waiting to be prettied up. The cart is 
absolutely free. I only ask that you send me a link if you use it. Not because I want to 
track you down or see if you deleted the indivision copyright or anything like that but 
because I’m just curious and would like to see if this is useful for anyone.

How It Works:

Products and their information (name, price, etc.) are stored in separate product modules. 
In addition, information regarding different categories are also stored in ‘index’ modules. 
You add categories and products by creating new .swf files with the information and the 
appropriate links within them. When a customer selects merchandise and enters their 
order information, it is sent to an email address. No record, order number or any kind of 
database of the transaction is made. The email is the only file. This means that it is up to 
whoever runs the store to manage the incoming emails (ie. Setting up processed/denied 
orders and saving them for records). While obviously being limited in this regard, this 
system would be fine for many small businesses.

Setting Up Shop:

A.	The Script (orderform.cgi)

Open the script and follow the instructions in it’s comments. Upload it to the ‘cgi-bin’ on 
your server. Make a note of the path to it’s location as you will need it later. Also, make 
sure that you upload the script in ASCII mode and not Binary.

B.	Inside the Store

Open store.fla in flash. In the actionscript of the first frame there are instructions 
regarding the path to your orderform.cgi. The store will not work unless you change the 
orderlocation variable to point at the location of your orderform.cgi. It is recommended 
that you continue on to the next step and get the cart working before you attempt to alter 
the categories. However, when you do change or add categories, you must change the 
index.swf files that the category buttons call. I have it set up now so that every button 
calls the surfindex.swf just for example. Publish the movie when you are done and upload 
to server. (NOTE: At this point you can go ahead and publish all of the files and upload 
them. If the store does not work, it has something to do with the paths or the script. I 
recommend that you get this part working now, before you begin altering the categories 
and products.)

C.	The Goods

Open surfindex.fla. Click on the ‘Edit Symbols’ button (looks like a triangle under a 
square under a circle) select the movieclip titled ‘P2’. This is where both the information 
for product categories and their images are stored. There are instructions in the 
actionscript on adding and entering category information. Images representing each 
category reside on separate frames within this clip. Simply import an image on a new 
frame and add information in the actionscript to add a category. (be sure that the purl 
variables correctly indicate a ‘product module.’)

Now open shirts.fla. This is a product module. It’s set up almost exactly like the index 
files. Open the movieclip titled ‘P2’. Products are entered the same as categories are 
entered. You may add as many variable sets and images as you like. The cart will 
automatically resize them to fit within the thumbnail window. Make a new product 
module for every category.


That’s it. Publish upload and enjoy. If you have questions regarding the cart, please post 
them on the forum at www.indivision.net. However, if you must, for some insane reason, 
you can email me at joe@indivision.net . Just remember that I respond to forum 
questions immediately and there is a 3-4 day waiting period for emails. ;)
