moosestory=Moose Jaw had always been a traditional Indian and fur trader’s camp at the Turn (today’s Kingsway Park).  Here campers had water and game for food.  It was a narrow place in the creek for crossing, and was protected by the Coteau Range; thus native peoples called this site “place of warm breezes”.
James Hamilton Ross, Hector Sutherland and three others arrived in the dead of winter on January 2, 1882.  Ross established his homestead four days later to become the first permanent resident of the city.  Their arrival was the result of a scouting tour the previous summer to find the most likely spot for the C.P.R.’s divisional point.
It was a perfect location with the union of Moose Jaw and Thunder Creeks, halfway between Winnipeg and Calgary (the two other divisional points in the West).  Ross thought it was the likely spot for a divisional point and his hunch proved correct.  The C.P.R. arrived at the settlement exactly eight months later.  From that point on, Moose Jaw’s future was assured.
As in most railway towns, settlement fanned out from the train station.  In Moose Jaw’s case, construction progressed steadily northward along Main Street.  Main Street, even in its earliest days, was set optimistically wide.  The frontier economy, varying wheat crops and government immigration policies led to spurts of growth followed by no growth.  Fire too played a prominent role.  The great December 12, 1891 fire claimed four lives, wiped out the first block of Main Street, and spilled northeast to destroy a total of 21 homes and businesses.  Another fire, only four months later, destroyed most of the second block.  Since then, further landmarks have been erased by individual fires.
Homesteaders flocked to Moose Jaw on the train.  It was estimated that 100 visitors per day lined up to do business at the Dominion Land Titles Office, headquarters for the largest district in the west.  The large number of people immigrating led to the building of an exceptional number of hotels.  By the mid-1920’s, however, immigration had leveled off, but Moose Jaw’s growing reputation as “Little Chicago”, the sin capital of the prairies, kept these hotels in full swing – especially along the notorious River Street.  
By 1929, no prairie city showed more promise than did Moose Jaw.  Bumper crops, a great building boom and a surge in tourism promised the city unprecedented prosperity.  But only months later, the Great Depression set in and years of drought made Moose Jaw the hardest hit city in Canada.  Construction stopped, for the most part, businesses moved on and places closed up.  Many old buildings, which might otherwise have been replaced, instead survived into an era where they are looked upon as historic sites rather than eyesores.  In this manner, downtown Moose Jaw has been exceptionally well preserved. 
